[Music]
welcome to another episode of seven men
in marketing with Pam my name is Pam
dinner I love sharing of those a b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement seven minutes at a time an HR
manager asked me hey Pam do you think
sales enablement training and
development belong to a chart well we
all know that training has been one of
the core competencies provided by HR in
addition to telling recruiting
performance review and the pay structure
so here's the reality with the rise of
technology training is no longer
confined to classroom settings or online
courses it can be a micro training
through mobile apps with snackable doses
of information pushed out daily to users
it can be virtual and interactive
hands-on training through augmented
reality or even just on point
educational videos on YouTube or topical
driven podcasts that you can listen to
anywhere frankly anyone in the company
who has budget can develop some sorts of
training materials for their team's
content creation tools are readily
available for anyone to use there are
also many different content syndication
platforms that enable you to easily
share your training materials on any
platforms you can use moon LOM to
require your training and they share on
YouTube via email or any social media
platforms you desire anybody in the
company can be a content creator the
boundary of training roles and
responsibilities between different
functional groups has begun to fade with
the rise of technology so he raises the
question who owns sales training HR
Sales functional or product groups
conventionally sales training tends to
resides within the sales organizations a
sales enablement manager or sales
training manager who is responsible for
sales onboarding and a training may
develop
continuous training Richmond from pre
onboarding curriculum to continuous
onboarding or annual refreshers and
updates using different medium or
technologies to accomplish that
effectively and digitally it may be
necessary to integrate the company's
email system which is from IT the
employees performance system from HR the
training platform which is from the
sales enablement department and the
content management library which tends
to be managed by marketing department
when the salespeople complete the pre
onboarding curriculums their managers
will receive an email notification or a
management dashboard will be updated
with the results and after the
salespeople take tests of each subject
in their curriculum the score is sent to
their manager and automatically updated
in their HR records so sales training if
you think about it can be loaned to
several departments if the sales
enablement training methodology and
platform being used is recognized as a
best practice then the HR department can
easily argue that sales enablement
training should be folded into their
responsibility to drive copra efficiency
the sales team can argue that the sales
enablement training has unique
requirements to their sales team
therefore the sales function should
retain the ownership of entire effort
the marketing team can make the case
that a big chunk of a sales training
content comes from the marketing team
therefore it should be run by marketing
organizational structure roles and
responsibilities will continue to morph
as market customers buying habits and
Technology evolved so who should all
sales training well I've seen the sales
enablement training function report to
marketing sales sales operations HR or
even product teams in some companies
sales training may be put under HR
because one of the more important
responsibilities of sales enablement is
training and HR guess what it's
responsible for hiring and training
company
why Amy pence sales enabled manager an
authoress reported to a sales team
initially then her team was moved from
sales to HR to scale her best practices
across cooperation in some cases subject
matter experts or product engineers are
responsible for creating product
training for the sales team and
therefore the training function is
incorporated into the product team EMA
Hazuki senior marketing manager for
Intel IOT division leased a sales
enablement team that reports to one of
the product groups so it really depends
on budget timeline skillset resources
senior management's direction or even
the maturity of a sales organization
even after taking these factors into
consideration ongoing adjustments have
to made based on the changing external
environment as well as the fact that
sales enablement itself is still
evolving even though the goal is the
same every company structure is sales
training support based on what works or
what they believe will work for them at
that time eventually they will probably
pivot as the team structure evolves
ultimately it doesn't matter what those
trainings resides the key is to foster
close collaborations across departments
to share best practices and provide
knowledge and tools to unleash employees
and sales people's potentials so one
question answered and more to go please
send me your marketing questions or
thoughts via twitter at Pam deter be
well keep hustling until next time
[Music]